# 4.2.1 Quick introduction to Sass

Sass stands for Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets. 

Sass is a CSS preprocessor. Sass is an extension of CSS that adds power and elegance to the basic language. It empowers well known possibilities from programming languages like:

- variables,
- imports,
- partials,
- extends,
- operators, 
- mixins / functions,
- if statements,
- and more ...

### Why Sass 

- Foundation is build with Sass
- easier to maintain big projects
- speed 
- flexibility

### What is SCSS

SCSS is more friendly syntax that is supported by Sass language. It's an abbreviation of Sassy CSS. It was introduced to fill the gap between original Sass syntax which is based on indentation. Using SCSS syntax feels more like writing standard CSS with extra power.

``` 
// Sass indented syntax
nav
  ul
    margin: 0
    padding: 0
    list-style: none

  li
    display: inline-block

  a
    display: block
    padding: 6px 12px
    text-decoration: none
 
// SCSS syntax
nav {
  ul {
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0;
    list-style: none;
  }

  li { display: inline-block; }

  a {
    display: block;
    padding: 6px 12px;
    text-decoration: none;
  }
}
```

!!! note

    Long story short. We use Sass with SCSS syntax.

### Useful links and resources

- <http://sass-lang.com/> - official homepage
- <http://sass-lang.com/guide> - basics
- <http://sass-lang.com/documentation/file.SASS_REFERENCE.html> - official documentation
- <http://sass-guidelin.es/> - Sass guidelines
- <http://sassmeister.com/> - JS Bin like but for Sass only
- <http://thesassway.com/> - tons of tutorials from beginner to advanced

### Basics

In this section we cover basics of Sass which in most cases is sufficient to write good code. We try not go beyond basic features in order not to make to complicated.

Information included in this section was greatly inspired by and introduction guide to Sass which can be found here: <http://sass-lang.com/guide>

#### Variables

Think of variables as a way to store information that you want to reuse throughout your stylesheet. You can store things like colors, font stacks, or any CSS value you think you'll want to reuse. Sass uses the $ symbol to make something a variable. Here's an example:

``` 
// SCSS
$font-stack:    Helvetica, sans-serif;
$primary-color: #333;

body {
  font: 100% $font-stack;
  color: $primary-color;
}
 
// CSS output
body {
  font: 100% Helvetica, sans-serif;
  color: #333;
}
```

#### Nesting

When writing HTML you've probably noticed that it has a clear nested and visual hierarchy. CSS, on the other hand, doesn't.

Sass will let you nest your CSS selectors in a way that follows the same visual hierarchy of your HTML. **Be aware that overly nested rules will result in over-qualified CSS that could prove hard to maintain and is generally considered bad practice.**

``` 
// SCSS 
nav {
  ul {
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0;
    list-style: none;
  }

  li { display: inline-block; }

  a {
    display: block;
    padding: 6px 12px;
    text-decoration: none;
  }
}
 
// CSS output
nav ul {
  margin: 0;
  padding: 0;
  list-style: none;
}
nav li {
  display: inline-block;
}
nav a {
  display: block;
  padding: 6px 12px;
  text-decoration: none;
}
```

!!! caution

    We try to not to nest deeper than 3 levels. To deep nesting leads to high specificity selectors which are difficult to override.

#### Partials

You can create partial Sass files that contain little snippets of CSS that you can include in other Sass files. This is a great way to modularize your CSS and help keep things easier to maintain. A partial is simply a Sass file named with a leading underscore. You might name it something like `_partial.scss`. The underscore lets Sass know that the file is only a partial file and that it should not be generated into a CSS file. Sass partials are used with the `@import` directive.

We use partials extensively to give the whole project more modular shape. We use for settings, components, utilities, etc.

#### Import

CSS has an import option that lets you split your CSS into smaller, more maintainable portions. The only drawback is that each time you use `@import` in CSS it creates another HTTP request. Sass builds on top of the current CSS @import but instead of requiring an HTTP request, Sass will take the file that you want to import and combine it with the file you're importing into so you can serve a single CSS file to the web browser.

``` 
// _colors.scss
$primary-color: #f00;
$secondary-color: #0f0;
...
 
// style.scss
@import "colors"
@import ... 
 
body {
    color: $primary-color;
    background: $secondary-color;
}
 
// style.css - output
body {
    color: #f00;
    background: #0f0;
}
```

!!! note

    Notice we're using `@import 'colors';` in the `style.scss` file. When you import a file you don't need to include the file extension `.scss` as well as the `_` (underscore). Sass is smart and will figure it out for you.

#### Mixins 

Some things in CSS are a bit tedious to write, especially with CSS3 and the many vendor prefixes that exist. A mixin lets you make groups of CSS declarations that you want to reuse throughout your site. You can even pass in values to make your mixin more flexible. A good use of a mixin is for vendor prefixes. Here's an example for border-radius.

``` 
// SCSS
@mixin border-radius($radius) {
  -webkit-border-radius: $radius;
     -moz-border-radius: $radius;
      -ms-border-radius: $radius;
          border-radius: $radius;
}

.box { @include border-radius(10px); }
 
// CSS output
.box {
  -webkit-border-radius: 10px;
  -moz-border-radius: 10px;
  -ms-border-radius: 10px;
  border-radius: 10px;
}
```

#### Extend

This is one of the most useful features of Sass. Using `@extend` lets you share a set of CSS properties from one selector to another. It helps keep your Sass very DRY (Don't repeat yourself). In our example we're going to create a simple series of messaging for errors, warnings and successes.

``` 
// SCSS
.message {
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  padding: 10px;
  color: #333;
}

.success {
  @extend .message;
  border-color: green;
}

.error {
  @extend .message;
  border-color: red;
}

.warning {
  @extend .message;
  border-color: yellow;
}
 
// CSS output
.message, .success, .error, .warning {
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  padding: 10px;
  color: #333;
}
.success {
  border-color: green;
}
.error {
  border-color: red;
}
.warning {
  border-color: yellow;
}
```

#### Operators

Doing math in your CSS is very helpful. Sass has a handful of standard math operators like +, -, \*, /, and %. In our example we're going to do some simple math to calculate widths for an aside & article.

``` 
// SCSS
.container { width: 100%; }
article[role="main"] {
  float: left;
  width: 600px / 960px * 100%;
}

aside[role="complimentary"] {
  float: right;
  width: 300px / 960px * 100%;
}
 
// CSS output
.container {
  width: 100%;
}
article[role="main"] {
  float: left;
  width: 62.5%;
}
aside[role="complimentary"] {
  float: right;
  width: 31.25%;
}
```

To learn more visit Sass official documentation page: http://sass-lang.com/documentation/file.SASS_REFERENCE.html
