# 4.2.2 Components

Storm components are located in

``` 
public/scss/storm
```

## How to create a new component

1. Go to `vendor/silversolutions/silver.e-shop/src/Silversolutions/Bundle/EshopBundle/Resources/public/scss/storm` and create new file file that follows our naming convention `_components.YOUR_COMPONENT.scss`
1. Make sure newly created component is included in `vendor/silversolutions/silver.e-shop/src/Silversolutions/Bundle/EshopBundle/Resources/public/scss/style.scss` in the components section (Storm components section). Please keep in mind alphabetical order of component files.
1. Write the code you need in you newly created component.

## How to extend a component

Since we use Foundation framework and a lot of other third party it often happens that basic functionality is already there. The only thing you need to do is to extend / override. 

1. Go to `vendor/silversolutions/silver.e-shop/src/Silversolutions/Bundle/EshopBundle/Resources/public/scss/storm` and create new file file that follows our naming convention `_extend.components.YOUR_COMPONENT.scss`
1. Make sure newly created component is included in `vendor/silversolutions/silver.e-shop/src/Silversolutions/Bundle/EshopBundle/Resources/public/scss/style.scss` in the components section (Extend Foundation components). Please keep in mind alphabetical order of component files.
1. Write the code you need in you newly created component.

Please make to follow our coding standards when writing new code: [4.6 Coding Standards](../../4.6_coding_standards/css_sass.md)
