#  4.5 Working with Gulp and Assetic 

## Pre-requirements

1.  Before you start please make sure you have Node.js and NPM installed on your system. To install it just go to <https://nodejs.org/en/>, download and follow the instructions.

### Official docu pages

  - <http://symfony.com/doc/current/cookbook/assetic/index.html>
  - <https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md>

## Installing required NPM packages

All commands listed below should be run from a command like

1.  Open your command line tool and install gulp globally by running

    ``` 
    npm install -g gulp
    ```

2.  Go to the root of the project and run

    ``` 
    npm install
    ```

    It will install all dependencies like gulp-sass, browser sync, etc. If you are interested what will be installed check package.json file

## Working with Gulp and Assetic

Thanks to Gulp and Assetic Bundle your work will be much easier and faster. Your assets will be processed and browser will be reloaded automagically for you. To make this work you need run these commands from the root of your project.

1.  Open you project in the browser (Google Chrome recommended)

2.  Go to the project root from command line and run these commands in a separate tabs/windows

    ``` 
    gulp
    // depends on the env that you are running change the --env flag
    php bin/console assetic:watch --env=dev
    ```

3.  Reload browser window to get connected with browser-sync. You should see a message for a short moment in the top right corner of the browser window that says "Connected to browser sync". From now on you don't need to refresh manually anymore.

### Troubleshooting

1.  When you make a mistake in your Sass code gulp might throw an error. If your changes are not directly visible on the page please check the tab/window with gulp command running and check for errors. Fix the error in your code and re-run gulp command.

## Updating gulp as well as dev dependencies

### Updating Gulp

You might be notified that gulp is out of date at some point. In order to update Gulp globally run this command from your terminal

``` 
npm install -g gulp
```

Official documentation: <https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/updating-global-packages>

### Updating dev dependencies

Sometimes we make some changes in our dev dependencies in order to improve the way we work with front-end. Since node\_modules are not tracked in Git you need install them manually. The best option is to remove all your dependencies and install them one more time to make you're up to date with all npm packages we use for front-end development.

1\. Make sure you are in **develop branch** and up to date (git pull) in the root and silver.e-shop repos  
2\. Run these commands inside your terminal from the root of the project

``` 
rm -rf node_modules
npm install
```

Basically you need to remove old packages and install latest versions. 

If you'll get any permission issues try run the commands with sudo.
